hmm and now the official hello hello
Chris Ryan
hello officially it's everything you
distinguished-looking motherfucker and I
just think that's the goatee the whole
deal yeah it comes and goes I don't know
what do you been up to man I've been
following your Instagram Chronicles yeah
yeah you travel in the world in a van
what are you doing
van through Paulo gee I call it it's the
van through Paulo G tour yeah yeah I
love it man it's like you know you and
I've probably spoken about in my 20s I
backpacked all over the world and
hitchhiked to Alaska a couple times and
you know did all these adventures a
Sprinter van that you have a bed in and
a cooler and a freezer and that's kind
of like a backpack for an older slightly
richer dude you know that's how I look
at it because you have everything you
need with you yeah which is a feeling I
love I love just being able to say you
know what I'm tired I'm gonna pull over
and sleep right here and before I do I'm
gonna have a couple of beers and listen
to some music and you know it's like
everything I need is right here
right can you what does it deal with
pulling over and a Sprinter van and
drinking are there a lot you know like
you're not even allowed to be drunk in
the backseat of your own car yeah I
believe if you have a bed it's
considered a domicile that's what I've
been told I'm not a legal expert but my
understanding is that the front two
seats are considered the vehicle but
beyond that in the back where you have
the bed and that all the stuff that's
considered your house so a warrant to
search is is the same as someone coming
into your house oh yeah cuz I know a
dude who got in trouble because he was
drunk in the backseat of his car because
he knew he was drunk and says like I'm
not fucking driving I'm just gonna sleep
it off and he laid down the back seat of
his car and the cops knocked on the door
and he opened up the door and he said
yeah I'm drunk and I'm sleeping off they
arrested him that's bullshit yeah well
you know some cops they feel like they
have to make a certain number of arrests
you know some places have quotas yeah
yes I've always thought that so strange
like what happens if no one commits
crimes
what do they do about the quotas do they
just make up crimes and how do they fill
those prisons that are you know
dependent upon 98% occupancy rate yeah
they just assumed that there's gonna be
a certain amount of people that fuck up
like what happens if something happens
some I mean I don't know what it would
be other than a mass consumption of
mushrooms across that with people just
on shit breaking laws yeah people just
stop they'll just pass law I mean every
one of us break several laws every day
right like there were laws we don't even
know exist that we're break like what
kind of laws you think oh god I know I
read an article about this years ago I'd
be hard-pressed to give you examples
right now but I'm sure they're financial
laws and we're all cheating on our taxes
not me not me buddy but everyone I know
except for Joe I well I have a lot of
hand mine off to accountants yeah but I
mean cutting corners you know we're all
cutting corners I ran to yellow lights
on my way here I'm sure I probably you
know it's four miles per hour over the
speed limit so that's how they get you
yeah I mean a lot of Thomas vehicles
yeah that kicks into gear that's gonna
be real interesting when no one's ever
breaking the speed limit what do they do
what is this Jamie six laws you bro you
go Jamie you're the best man cracked.com
always has great articles like this so
what does it say what do we got here
connecting to unsecured Wi-Fi networks
that's what why are you guys so if you
go to Starbucks and it's an unsecured or
the airport that's very open for that
purpose but like if someone actively
your neighbor leaves there's an open I'm
think that's what it's saying right here
Oh Wi-Fi squatting and what about every
time you click on one of you update some
software and you click agree I have read
and agree to this you didn't read that
shit nobody reads it one of the things
that Snowden talked about you oh yeah
about the terms and condition right that
you you accept and who knows what's in
there that then you're not complying
with well I would have to have a lawyer
go over every piece of it and then a lot
of is open to interpretation and then
change it at a moment's notice
right one of the things you see in terms
and conditions is they have the ability
to change it without notice which is
like what Sam has had a great podcast
with this guy who was an expert in data
collection he was talking about what's
actually happening now is that we have
there's a commodity that commodity is
data and we didn't know it was a
commodity and then all of a sudden these
companies like Facebook and Google made
billions and billions of dollars off of
this commodity that we didn't even know
we were giving up yeah we didn't know
that they had it we didn't know it was
valuable and then you know this is no
way to protect it and that's their
business model their business model is
and then they're also their business
models tricking you into clicking on
things by getting you outraged so
they're consistently bringing up things
whether it's you know Trump or abortion
or whatever it is that like gets you
riled up that outrage algorithm we're
gonna find your little soft spot yeah I
saw you just posted something on that
recently on Twitter Facebook thing yeah
yeah it was an argument that Facebook is
the the what it is is an an algorithm
that's designed to find outrage that's
not free speech right it's just an out
outrage accelerometers right well you
think about even you know that goes back
to his Willie Randolph Hearst you know
saying like you know I'll I'll give you
the war you know I'll you give me the
war I'll sell the papers and and get the
public behind it because it's good
business yeah yeah yeah it's it's an
interesting world isn't it are you
talking about Tristan Harris was that
the guy on Sam Harris's podcast the
ethicist I do not know I don't I heard
him on Sam Harris's podcast he was a I
think he has a PhD in computer science
and philosophy and he worked at Google
as they're like in-house ethicist and
then he quit because it's like there's
no such job be evil exactly stopped
having that don't be doesn't exist it
doesn't exist is that when you have that
yeah you can be evil
weird thing to both have and then
weirder still to remove yeah yeah I went
to get a marriage contract that has that
clause in it where you can update it
without notification you know just get
that in there have your lawyer slip that
into the pre on any moment you could
bail it's far bail or just change the
terms you know yeah yeah yeah I don't
know it's it's a strange world Joe
that's why I like being in my van keep
things simple well humans are strange
creatures you know and we vary so widely
that you you know trying to make any
sense of putting 300 million of us
together on a lot on island decides yeah
good luck with that
alright and we vary not only
individually but I think we vary we
become different creatures in different
conditions so people sometimes will ask
me like what's your you know what is
human nature what's your opinion you
know based on these books and I say it's
like asking what's the natural state of
h2o boiling is it exactly whatever
what's the pressure what's the altitude
yeah don't you feel like you're
different people with different people
as well yeah yeah I had a girlfriend a
Spanish she was her mother was French
your father's Catalan she was raised in
Spain and then lived in Miami which is
13 to 15 or something so she spoke
English really well Spanish French and
Catalan perfectly right and we were
living in San Francisco and I was high
or smoking a joint she was across the
room talking to her mom on the phone in
French and then her mom put her dad on
the phone so she switched to Catalan and
and I was just high enough that I
noticed like wow that's not Peggy
talking to different languages and that
three cuz she would like put her hand on
the phone say yeah my mom said no Nona
so English French Catalan it's not Peggy
speaking three languages those are three
different Peggy's she's different her
facial tics and her movements in her
body position changed depending on the
language she was speaking right and at
the time I was in grad school and I
thought this is like multiple
analogy disorder so I started
researching multiple personality and I
sort of came up with this idea that
language in her case because she learned
them all when she was very young
reconfigures the brain in such a way
that she actually has different
identities in those languages and next
time we were fucking I started talking
to her in Spanish and she freaked out
yeah yes like like I was I was a
stranger suddenly yeah I just said so I
you know I just said like you're
beautiful or something she's like
Eddie's muy guapa yeah like get away
from me you creep because our whole
relationship had been in English yeah
yeah it's strange so anyway so I looked
into multiple personality disorder the
story has everything and I don't know if
you you've checked that out you member
Stanley krepner my buddy who came down
with the pox with you yeah he had done a
bunch of research on that and there was
a movie called Sybil yeah I remember
that he was the consultant for that
movie he was also a consultant for
Rosemary's Baby remember that the the
possession yeah yeah anyway as a
Polanski movie I think so yeah yeah one
of the early ones yeah people have with
multiple personality disorder the
research is bizarre it it seems to
indicate that people have different
physiological states in the different
personalities so you could have a
different baseline heart rate blood
pressure you know these sort of baseline
heart rate yeah in the different even
it's now this is just I don't know how
reliable this is but I even read that
some people have different ocular
pressure so that one personality needs
reading glasses and another doesn't yeah
how much is psychosomatic like really
how much how much of who you are and how
you how your body works is dependent
upon the way your brain is caching
things right
culture language personal experience
I mean it's all your mood how much you
slept the night before you know all
these things tyent identity is something
we take for granted but if you start to
look at it it's like it's like gravity
you know gravity we sort of included in
our calculations but nobody has any idea
what's happening right how does that
work like oh that's right real touchy
about it oh really
yeah yeah when I brought it up he I
think he's we had a weird conversation
and I think part of the word
conversation it was the first
conversation that he's had publicly
since he's been accused of you know
right he came back for misconduct
yeah well he was you know they found him
innocent according to whatever internal
investigation they had you know then
when they were doing his television show
all right you know planetarium but it's
still even if even if he's proven
innocent you've you know you've got the
weight of who knows how many people that
think you're a creep now right you know
and he's carrying that around because he
was always thought of as being this
jovial yeah sweet nice guy so he's a
little tense anyway that's why I start
out admitting I'm a creep it's good
ladies and gentlemen I am a fucking
creep you can't just take it from the
sheen shame Charlie Sheen but we had
this conversation about gravity and it
was weird
it was like I was arguing with him and I
wasn't arguing I was like I was like
what what is cause he like like what
causes it and he's like we know like he
went into this whole thing we know what
it is we know how to measure it we
commit that's good enough for me yeah it
was it was a very tense conversation
that's interesting yeah because it is a
faith-based thing there you know like
he's right they know how to measure it
but we also know how to measure placebo
right and we don't know how the fuck
that works we know that hypnosis people
can have open-heart surgery under
hypnosis or have limbs amputated or all
sorts of amazing things with no
anesthesia whatsoever cuz I really been
done you know yeah yeah yeah have you
ever been hypnotized yeah but I don't
have high hypnotic ability that differs
it's another thing that differs among
people and Stanley actually has a really
interesting theory along those lines
which is that
and prehistoric populations hypnotic
ability would be adaptive because a lot
of the healing rituals were keying in to
placebo response so if we have a certain
ritual if you're susceptible to the you
know you believe in that like voodoo
there's a mmm you know voodoo death
people die when your spell is cast or at
least because they believe it if you
don't believe it it doesn't happen so
what happens the opposite direction as
well with healing so his his idea is
that that would have been a very
adaptive characteristic in prehistoric
societies
whereas in contemporary societies it's
maladaptive hmm because you're more
susceptible to advertising you're easier
to manipulate hmm yeah so I yeah I've
when I was in grad school I had some
professors who worked with hypnosis and
I studied it a bit along the same around
the same time I was looking at multiple
personality disorder because I was real
interested in this question of how the
brain and the body interact how much of
there's all this research showing that
people with the same condition in
hospitals exactly the same age same
prognosis and all that they heal
significantly faster if their hospital
window looks out on trees as opposed to
looks out in another building like that
just looking at something like nature
yeah he's the body into some sort of
energy that that helps it to heal
completely makes sense
I've met people with multiple
personalities well rosanna rosanna Scott
doesn't she make sure that's true um I
know another one that's a weird one is
the football player Herschel Walker I
think he had trauma induced multiple
personality disorders Wow
does she there's the article as it says
like bill bill maher reminds as she does
and then Roseanne says she doesn't so
yeah I think and then she 2001 says
seventh having seven personalities as
tough her saying it so yeah well here's
the thing about Roseanne I mean you know
I'm saying this for the tenth time I
guess she was hit by a car when she's 15
and
she was put in a mental institute for
nine months afterwards she had severe
brain damage and she lost her ability to
do mathematics and like really scrambled
her brain and that is probably the birth
of the Roseanne that we know the
comedian and that's also the case of Sam
Kinison Sam Kinison was also like a
pretty normal kid and then he was hit by
a car and you know pretty severe brain
damage as well and brain damage for
especially apparently as especially as
an impact on your ability to be rational
and impulsive behavior like people with
brain damage
a lot of times get very impulsive it's a
very so widely yeah you know it's what
what happens to you dependent upon like
what kind of trauma where the trauma is
what part of your brain but yeah when
when they said it about Herschel Walker
I was always confused I wonder if it was
from football like football trauma or
was it personal trauma like you know
abuse yeah people with letter diagnosed
with multiple personality disorder if I
remember correctly almost always were
severely abused as kids you know and in
fact the the rationale is that they
develop the alternate personalities as a
way of escaping a reality that's
intolerable makes sense yeah yeah I mean
look people do weird things with
horrible memories you know they buried
them to the point where they don't even
really have access to them anymore you
know sexual abuse and some traumatic
events when you're young yeah but the
fucking human brain then the way it
adapts and molds the things as so
bizarre yeah there's a there's an
anecdote that is in this book civilized
to death notice that segue yeah it's by
the way the art is done by a guy listen
to my podcast
really it looks like but the art by guy
was cheeseburger a chimp wearing a
cheeseburger with a nice suit
again an iPhone oh you have a story so
there's a species of grasshopper in
North Africa that you know they hang out
there grasshoppers they're dispersed
they eat grass they're chill right rains
come the grasslands expand grasshopper
population increases then the rain
stopped the grasslands contract to the
point where the the density of the
grasshoppers triggers dormant genes so
there's an epigenetic event in these
grasshoppers and they start to transform
and not over generations individuals
front legs get shorter back legs get
longer thorax changes shape of the head
changes coloring changes and behavior
changes from being these chilled out
solitary relaxed grasshoppers they start
attacking each other they become
cannibalistic and they swarm locust
locust exactly they become locusts so
this species of grasshopper and locust
is the same species it's the same DNA
it's just responding to different
conditions so you know we're talking
about the brain and you know who you are
and what identity is and all that and
this I was reminded this when you said
you know people are so different and the
h2o thing we're not only different as
individuals in the same context we
change completely given the context were
in yeah so the focus of his book is the
hunter-gatherers were essentially a
different sort of animal they were
essentially you know the parallel is
with the grasshoppers and now we're
swarming yeah now we're a different kind
of animal even though our DNA is the
same well that completely makes sense I
mean people that live in small towns are
so different than people live in cities
yeah it's so rare that you find someone
who has a small-town sensibility in
Manhattan it's got to get chewed up yeah
yeah literally yeah it's um that's the
the the locust thing's amazing have you
ever written or read read rather the
accounts of the settlers
you know the pioneer days making their
way across the country and dealing with
these swarms of locusts and really not
having any idea what to do with them or
how to handle it eat them yeah yeah you
can't the Native Americans ate him yeah
yeah yeah that's probably a real good
move right that's one of the things that
people think is probably an excellent
solution to some of the issues that
people have with meat because a lot of
people don't have any problem killing
bugs but they wouldn't want to kill a
lamb right you know but you can have
cricket proteins we thought micro
agriculture yeah yeah cricket proteins
apparently like very healthy
I've eaten crickets yeah I have two in
Thailand I've had him in Mexico oh yeah
let's go they've they had them fried and
we were staying at a resort and I've put
Tomita yeah I think was down there
Porter Beata yeah and they had a bowl in
the resort like when we walked into the
hotel room like like it's like sliced
mangoes and then they had fucking
crickets all right I'll try that I
hosted fear factor there's a restaurant
here in LA that I was at just a couple
of weeks ago that has all sorts of
crickets and grass it's a Mexican place
they specialize in Molay I don't
remember what good Mexican place really
good like there's a lot of great Mexican
food in LA but it's like you know like
your basic burrito joints and tacos it's
not like gourmet Mexican food it's very
gourmet Mexican place places that right
there yeah that's it that's right
couldn't remember the name James way leg
width up top yeah no I just I don't know
the word it's like up I don't know if it
means party but it's a celebration down
oaxaca yeah Wacka serving up insects
yeah check it out it's a good place I
really the mole is fantastic is that
what part of LA Olympic okay deep in the
heart of Texas yeah damn beautiful yeah
no I love mole and and let's face it
shrimp lobster that's just bugs it was
just big sea bugs
well we found that out on Fear Factory
was people that are allergic to
shellfish are also allergic to roaches
huh yeah we found that out the hard way
no lawsuit no no if the dude was
allergic to shellfish and he had to eat
roaches for this thing and you know they
wound up having to give him an adrenalin
shot oh yeah he was seasoned up a little
bit your windpipe starts constricting
yeah yeah
I'm not allergic to anything as far as I
know congratulations very happy yeah me
too
yeah that's a bummer man allergies are
but especially freakin peanuts I've
heard peanut allergies are so bad that
people will ask you to not eat peanuts
on a plane you know someone who has a
peanut allergy like some people's peanut
allergy is so severe yeah even like the
dust of you chewing peanuts on a plane
next to them to get them sick and and
it's interesting to think about the
state of consciousness and how that
affects allergies because apparently and
again I'm always cautious about saying
shit on the show shows there's so many
people listening so caveats been a long
time since I read the research but if I
remember correctly under hypnosis a lot
of people with allergies no longer in
fact I remember the research yeah there
was a it was a setup where the person
could see so like you and I are talking
across the table and there's a mirror
behind me and in the mirror in your
peripheral vision you see roses and
you're allergic to roses you'll have a
reaction even though they're plastic
roses so it sort of enters the
consciousness and triggers the response
subconsciously yeah if I think that's
how it was and then with people under
hypnosis like Andrew Weil wrote about
this cat allergies he was tripping it
was on MDMA I think and he was playing
with a cat and had no reaction to it Wow
yeah hey this self-hypnosis squelches
allergies hey you need a Jamie in my lie
do
damn picturing ski slopes reduces hay
fever symptoms by a third look at that
picturing ski slopes so weird I'm skiing
what cuz you're picturing a place where
there's no pollen right right it's you
could probably picture the surface of
Mars too yeah well you know you forgot a
needle you know like you get a shot and
the doctors about to give you the shot
and you start like tensing up like you
feel this like the anticipation
basically your your heart starts
quickening you get like really weirded
out by it but then you get the shot like
I wasn't shit like why was I freaking
out like that but it's this the
psychosomatic aspect of it I think
that's what life is basically not sure
yeah it's an analogy like we're always
worried about things we spent so much
time worrying about things most of which
never occur yeah you know and even the
ones that do occur it's like wow
whatever like death you know what is I'm
not worried about death dying maybe if
it takes too long but if it's if it
takes like an hour or a day to die
that's a tiny fraction of your life who
gives a shit you're not a guy that
really spends a lot of time working on
fitness or what's a nice way to put you
you enjoyed that I take it as a
compliment you things to do than work
out Joe I get it
you enjoyed that article that I wrote a
long time I did the sand
yeah human bodies like a sand castle
yeah yeah you can make it beautiful but
it's not gonna last
yeah and you know that going in you know
that way yeah and I and I mean I've got
this idea for a book if I keep writing
books which is sort of a self-help book
but it's a parody of self-help books and
so it'll be it'll be calling attention
to the way so much of what we do to try
to be healthy is actually
counterproductive because we stress
especially Americans everything's work
you know everything turns into work and
Americans are very suspicious of
pleasure we're taught to that pleasure
is you know evil and dangerous and all
this hmm I've never bought that line of
reasoning I've always felt like what
feels good generally is good there's a
reason it feels good you know now that
can get corrupted by advertising and
false messaging from a sick society that
tells you you know sit on the sofa and
drink beer and eat bags of chips all day
but if you get beyond that and you can
actually hear the voice of your body I
think if your body is telling you to you
know stay in bed because it's a rainy
cold day now I know this is totally
against your perspective on life where
you're like you gotta tame the inner
bitch you got to get out of bed you got
to work out it doesn't matter I'm like
no man I'm staying in bed like you you
go to what you need to do I used to
climb mountains with his friend of mine
in Spain and he was like you he was a
fucking billy goat he'd like go up there
and I'd go with him till I got to a nice
spot with a nice view I'd be like dude
I'll be here when you come down taking a
nap got a bottle of wine and some cheese
I appreciate that too I'm not married to
my perspective but I think I have a very
peculiar biology that demands a certain
amount of exertion yeah sure and I
friends like that I mean I you know I've
lots of friends like man I if I don't
run every day I feel like shit I'm like
Ronnie's very addictive though I feel
fine yeah you get you get used to that
there's a high that you get from running
that's really interesting and any
long-term cardiovascular exercise you
get this it's like we did you know what
last last October we did the sober
October thing where we have this crazy
fitness challenge so all of us were
doing cardio like five hours a day
really crazy amounts of cardio and one
of things that Tom Segura and I both
agreed on is like the the amount of
internal chatter dissipates to zero like
you've no anxiety because I didn't
realize I had any anxiety until that
happened and then I was like God it goes
to zero it goes to nothing like when you
do like five hours on a treadmill or
just running just run when you when it's
done man there's this like peace of mind
that comes with that this release of
endorphins that's incredibly addictive
because that feeling is so pleasing so
it's not that it doesn't it doesn't feel
good to get out of bed and to just push
when you don't want to but the end
result feels amaze
it does so I like I wonder if there's
any research looking into whether that
effect happens universally because I've
worked out I've run there were times in
my life I never I've never gotten a
runner's high never I get my teeth hurt
my knees hurt my back hurts I feel my
brain you know bouncing around in my
skull
you know I'm half a mile into it and I'm
like fuck this this doesn't feel good
you have to get in shape first that's a
big part of it it's not it's not that
simple
it's like for me I never really got into
running I like the first time I really
did any serious running I my friend cam
Haynes had a 5k which is what is that
three miles something like that some
like and I didn't run at all in
preparation for it and when I ran the 5k
I was like Jesus Christ this is hard
like I didn't have and there was no good
feeling at all yeah you know it's
running on concrete and shit and right
in Vegas it's gross and Vegas Melanson
in the air and but when it was over I
was like okay obviously I'm not I'm in
good shape but not in good running shape
at all so I should probably get in shape
for this so then I started running and
then when I got into running and
particularly running hills then I
started feeling it once I kind of got in
that kind of shape and then when the you
know when the workouts are over like I
run all the time now and when it's over
I just have this ha yeah you and
Marshall or yeah doing your thing it's
great yeah fucking lot and he loves it
too there's no crazy bonding experience
with that dog you know because he loves
it yeah I got my dad a golden retriever
the best time years ago when my dad was
like you know I get maybe its genetic is
he's pretty lazy he'd come home from
work you know sit in front of the TV and
drink vodka and get upset about the news
and and my mother didn't like dogs but I
my sister and I convinced her that dad
needs a dog because dad will get this
dog and he'll go for walks cuz the dog
needs to walk and so we got no golden
retriever he named it Stoli
bad sign right there and then and then
he never went for walks totally just sat
next to them and got fat I know
wow it's common doesn't always work no
yeah it helps me get going because I
know that he needs exercise yeah it does
but it helps me too and it's fun like I
talked to him when we run you know I
guess we're running you know I have
little conversations with him yeah cool
fun he's not judging you right really
covered shit they probably prefer that
more interesting
yeah it's but the the runner's high is a
real thing but you have to achieve some
level of fitness before I think it kicks
in yeah I closest I've come to that is
the sex high mmm you know host
ya know during coital now it's like yeah
maybe there's like a workout element to
that well sex when you're really aroused
and you're really attracted to the
person like in the middle of the act of
it it's like you're on a drug yeah it
can be like this incredible elevation
where you you're high basically you're
high in the shore and orphans aroused
State yeah yeah and you have that that
hyper focus you're talking about
removing anxiety you're not thinking
about yeah you know anything other than
where you are it's one of those
beautiful moments I had a guy in my
podcast recently who's like a legend in
the world of like high risk stuff he's a
BASE jumper and he flies those wingsuits
what's his name what is his name he
lives in Bozeman Montana stump no that's
crazy because my friend Andy stuff lives
in Montana
I'm sure he knows he's he holds the
world record for that wingsuit Chen
Stewart could it be a man I don't
remember I'm sure Andy knows him yeah
for sure in Bozeman and this guy's 44
he's been doing it a long time and it's
about how old Andy is and he's probably
probably fly together yeah yeah really
nice guy but it was interesting like how
you know here's this guy who's doing
this super
high-risk adrenaline stuff and like he
just had done this thing where he's
paragliding with another dude on the
Brooks Range in Alaska and like just the
two of them and they let land and camp
oh my god you know nowhere bears
everywhere like forget it
and then they get up the next morning
jump off the mountain and keep going but
this guy was so calm
he was just like it was like talking to
Buddha or something he's just like so
centered and relaxed and focused it was
beautiful we had a really enjoyable
conversation from my perspective anyway
because I tend to be kind of scattered
and you know tangentially speaking right
now I'm going all over the place whereas
he was just like it was just really
centered and balanced it was nice you
have to have laser focus if you're gonna
fuck around with that kind of stuff
that's it you don't want to yeah Jeff
Shapiro that's yeah yeah thanks Jamie
yeah and that's his his Falcon he's got
this Falcon as well right when I was
starting to love him yeah he's all into
into flight man he's yeah I guess yeah
he's a cool dude those wingsuits man I
mean talk about risk versus reward fuck
he told his story he was like he said
yeah you know I've had the experience a
few times of you know standing on this
toes over the cliff 3,000 feet up or
whatever and fist bump with your buddy
and he goes to see you you know see you
down there he goes and then you hear it
bang yeah you know like I've carried
dudes bodies out of the woods you know
yeah I've done that too many times he
was talking about you know these
different approaches and how the young
guys tend to be more half fucking man
they think they're indestructible and in
his age he's seen enough he's carried
enough bodies he's lost enough friends
that he's not thinking that way anymore
you know and he doesn't want to be
around guys who are cuz he doesn't want
to deal with the trauma you know well
it's all there's a competitive aspect to
it too come on don't be a pussy yeah you
know like that stuff can get you killed
too cuz then
just like sort of hijacks your own way
of interacting with whatever the fuck
this danger is yeah yeah yeah peer
pressure yeah that's real yeah I start
off I'm a pussy I'm a creep I'm a pussy
you know like you got no leverage I'm
lazy
you know what fascinates me man mob
mentality I'm not mentality like like
you know if there's like a riot that
like physical violence yeah in a way
that you would never like a lot of
people who would never think about
hitting someone
when people are hitting people all over
the place you'll just dive in like
people dive in and kick people and punch
people hmm very weird like bar fights
you see I've never seen one in real life
I've seen a bunch of him hey does that
happen people just randomly punch in
each other yeah yeah yeah people just
punch people yeah I've seen some I've
seen some pretty chaotic brawls it's uh
it's but there's a strange feeling in
the air it's almost like a smell you
know like you Jim you not I was in a at
a riot and that earlier that day in the
day we like we were like the hornet's
nest is gonna explode tonight we kind of
felt it was business for the Ohio State
Michigan game like mm too big a lot of
State Michigan game I know you don't
really know send the football thing of
it but there it's a huge day big event
we won in a very close game undefeated
season for IO States they're headed to
national championship this then meant
sofas on fire in the street for like the
next couple hours and then shortly as
the night exploded there was a couple
bonfires in the middle of the street we
went we heard saw that on the news so we
went close to see it cuz we were a
couple blocks away as we got close we
heard the D knocker bullets getting
fired out so everybody scattered but it
was rubber bullets yeah from like so
with everyone went from one Street on
campus to like three other streets then
it started up again the street I was on
seven cars got flipped over and lit on
fire so people started trying to like
move their car sit and lose it cuz
they're college kids don't have any
money whatever a lot of those people got
caught on videos expelled from school
whatever but at the end of that street I
was at we were on and we saw all the
riot police the SWAT team like lining up
they started firing out tear gas
everywhere a tear gas canister ended up
on the porch of the house we were in
like exploded in the house almost like
we were all coughing and had to get the
fuck out of there
lasted for a couple of hours like no one
died anything like that there wasn't a
lot of violence but just 12 to 15 cars
got fucked up the thing is someone could
have died that's what's really that's
what's really crazy about those chaotic
moments of violence is that when when
something's in the air act and you see
like a big brawl going on it's like
everything seems it's it seems like
civilisations flimsy like for that brief
moment I think there's a natural thing
that kicks in with people that sort of
allows them to act in war and allows
them to act like when the tribe is
invaded like when you know when a
neighboring army invades your village
there's some thing that kicks in where
you like recognizes violence and you
just look to swing on anybody that's
around you and you see it in these these
brawls when you see some sort of a riot
like you see these people and you're
like I guarantee you that guys never
punched anybody before in his life and
he's running over trying to punch people
and everybody's punching everybody and
people are swinging in and you know you
see it in these fucking whenever you see
like like an auntie fho versus proud
boys type thing you know I mean like
these left versus right Trump supporters
versus Bernie bros and you see chaos
right online or an online stream those
in person but see these moment tribal
tribal moments where it feels like it
could break out into violence at any
time fee is a smell in the air it's like
it changes the atmosphere of the air and
you feel like you got to protect
yourself like anything can happen in any
moment from people that you would never
think of as being violent like you would
net you know you would never assume that
these folks would be violent to you that
they don't look scary they're not
scary-looking people but everybody just
seems to get out it's like a thing
happens like the locusts right like a
little trigger what happens with dormant
yeah cave your patterns yeah yeah often
wondered about what that is because I've
been around at a bunch of times
and well I was
once big-time in high school when I was
in high when I was in high school there
was a kid who lives in this really nice
house and he moved into the neighborhood
for the first time and he decided was
gonna have a party to meet meet a bunch
of people make friends and people
started robbing his house and in a brawl
broke out I'll never forget it I was
there I was there at the event horizon
of the brawl I was there at the moment
it happened a girl did something to a
guy I can't remember what she did I
can't remember she threw a drink in his
face or if she hit him I don't remember
but I remember him hitting her because I
remember him I remember him pulling his
hand back I'm like all my guys gonna
punch her in the face and boom he
punched her right I mean like he knew
how to punch too
it was like a real punch to the face the
girl goes unconscious and then you know
she falls back and then chaos I mean
people diving on top of people piles of
people out in the yard everybody's
fighting everybody you're just ducking
it's like a movie and then and almost
everyone has no idea what they're even
fighting I saw the moment it happened I
was there I kind of wish I could
remember memories so sucky you know it
really is I have like yes malaria slides
but I do remember that fist hitting her
face because I remember he went like
this I was like oh no he knows how to
punch
and he went bang he just cracked her in
the face and she is back and she went
out cold and I think somebody caught her
I think someone caught her as she was
going down and then it was just melee
and I'm but I remember the feeling in
the air cuz it was the first time I
think I'd ever been around anything like
that I was like whoa piles of kids
fighting on the you know all the
fighting no I was running away from
everybody the fuck out of here yeah I
mean I always did martial arts but I was
very very rarely involved in any
extracurricular altercations so I just
got the fuck out of there and the other
time was when I was a security guard for
great woods great woods is a place in
Mansfield Massachusetts was like this
concert venue and Neil Young was planned
of all people and there was a there's a
lawn area I slept in his bed
have you really y'all I can't tell that
story so yeah
so it's an amphitheater so there's this
like this covered
seeded area and then behind the covered
seeded areas is gigantic lawn area and I
remember it was cold out I remember what
the deal was but people started lighting
fires on the lawn like little bonfires
and then it's just then chaos broke out
we started trying the security people
start trying to put out the fires and
tell people to stop and then people
started hitting people and just crazy
and I I always kept a hoody with me
because I you know it's getting like $9
an hour something like that right not
gonna get shot for $9 now or a beat-up
fucker this so soon as shit went crazy I
put my zip up I put my hoodie on I'm
like I quit I quit the job was leaving
has always quit I was watching people
just beat the fuck out of people I was
like dodging my way through this thing
like get out of here with this stupid
fucking job you gotta know when to leave
it was a feeling it was like oh there's
that fucking smell in the air like
anything can happen at any moment now
right yeah I mean you think about these
dudes who you know come back from war
with PTSD you know again it's this
consciousness context-dependent behavior
where you know they they do things in
that situation and then they come back
to the normal world it's like coming out
of a dream and it's hard to believe you
did that you know it's hard to believe
that was you and how do you integrate
that into your life with your wife and
your kids and mom and dad and the
neighbors it's yeah I mean yeah those
four guys they're dealing with some real
heavy shit there and no one tells you
how to do that you know no one knows how
to do it right yeah yeah and no one
gives a shit right like once they get
there you know get you to go do what
they want to do then you know it's hard
to even get you knows what a two-year
wait for any sort of psychological
counseling is right yeah it depends on
the state but at least that I had a guy
on the podcast I'm actually the one
Jamie showed us right before the
wingsuit dude was a dude who had been in
Iraq and and then he came back and
worked as a SWAT team commander you know
so he was like doing all sorts of really
heavy stuff and then
he just got out and now he's living
off-grid in Idaho raising three little
boys with his wife and he's a former
Mormon so he sort of talked about how
he's you know Mormonism taught him to
respect authority and and do what he was
told and and you know that just fed
right into his experience and the army
and with the police and but man yeah I
have so much compassion for those guys
who get out and like look back and say
what did I do you know yeah who was that
guy but how and how they sort of like
stopped that like stop the thought
process when they come back into
civilization yeah but still have the
memories and and how do you trust
yourself right you know that I'm not
gonna hurt anyone else
mm-hmm you know yeah it's it's hard and
and yeah like like we were just saying
that they get very little support you
know they they're sent off to do this
horrible stuff and then they come back
and it's like okay now don't do that
anymore
yeah the the incremental progress that
we achieve as a civilization is it's
amazing but also so frustratingly slow
that no one I mean no one I've ever
talked to thinks there's gonna be a
moment in our lifetime where there's no
war no one no one thinks is gonna be a
murder no one thinks there's gonna be a
moment in our lifetime where there's no
rape where we just we just figure it out
like I'm pretty confident if it was just
the three of us forever
no one would rape anybody no one murders
the three of us sure because I'm
probably the victim here like I'm saying
like that what what number of people how
how many people do they have to be yeah
before one of those things becomes
possibility yeah but what if you have a
group of close friends a group of group
of close friends who are good
communicators and good honest healthy
friendly people can live together and
yeah you know whatever issues you might
have with someone not doing the dishes
or someone forgetting to put back your
lawn mower or whatever the fuck it is
you could work that out it's no big deal
like what is what's the number of PEEP
150 okay that's Dunbar's not enterprise
number yeah I'm sure you've heard about
that yeah I mean that might really be it
that might really be what we're
programmed for that's what hunter-gather
that's where hunter-gatherer groups
always splinter yeah or they never get
beyond that and I think that's why
because you know a hunter-gatherer group
which is egalitarian and sharing and
cooperative and all that by necessity
right because that's how our ancestors
survived is by taking care of each other
mitigating risk you need reputational
damage and if everyone doesn't know
everyone reputational damage is no
longer effective so if you let's say you
go and you're you're a good hunter and
you kill an antelope and then you don't
share it and you just keep it for
yourself that's not gonna go over real
well with a hunter-gatherer group yeah
you're gonna be ridiculed chastise may
be expelled from the group maybe have a
hunting accident and die because that
the hoarding selfish behavior is
extremely taboo in a hunter-gatherer
society whereas you know you look at our
society where reputational damage is no
longer functional outside of your group
of friends as long as you're good to
your friends your golfing buddies you
can screw the rest of the world you can
not pay your contractors for years and
become president right you know yeah
everyone in New York I worked in real
estate in New York in the 80s everyone
knew who that guy was and what it was up
to and we couldn't trust him he was full
of shit and they ripped everybody off
and but that's how business works in New
York even the the company I was working
for is really interesting to see how
your leverage increased when you owed
somebody a lot of money you know as
there's that truism if you have someone
five bucks you have a problem with you
owe them a million bucks they have a
problem you know I really see that but
yeah I think it's 150 is is the cutoff
for how many people we can keep track
out I think
Dunbar's number is proved to be pretty
accurate well it seems to be what we
what we evolved
to sort of be accustomed to right yeah
that's the well that's not real cortex
that's you know Dunbar was looking at
the the brain anatomy of different
primates and by looking at the
proportion of a neocortex to the rest of
the brain he predicted the maximum
social size of those primates of each of
the species and that's how he came to
the estimate of 154 humans and then they
went and looked at people that they did
you know data collection that's so crazy
yeah they can do the physical size of
something like that that there's a
direct correlation like the direct
correlation between the size of primates
testicles and the amount of promiscuous
females in the area you've read sexathon
[Laughter]
I'm thinking I might do I did the audio
book of civilized to them which I really
enjoyed that process I'm thinking I
might do a 10th anniversary
director's cut audio book of sex at dawn
did you do the audio version now who did
factors Oh yuck yeah oh yeah yeah and
Steve Rinella he wrote a book on buffalo
the American Buffalo you know just the
history of Buffalo in this country and
someone else wrote it and he finally got
the rights back yeah did it himself now
yeah I'm gonna build him because the
person who read it it was like a soap
opera actor right had no connection to
the material at all and in sexathon
there's a lot of there a lot of jokes
and and you know Riya sides and stuff
and the people who read it they they
don't get it they didn't get the humor
so it's just the straight ahead it's as
if you know someone took your comedy
material and just read it in a monotone
it so that's called come on criticizing
me in a blog do it someone takes it and
just puts it in quotes like that yeah
yeah good point you know there's no
delivery there there's no voice it's
yeah yeah I'm looking forward to that
and I think I'm gonna I don't know if
Steve did this or not but I think I'm
gonna as I said a director's cut so I'll
you know when I read a paragraph that
reminds me of something or they you know
what I thought when I wrote that or you
know my dad really wanted me to include
that phrase or you know whatever little
asides
so there will be some commentary ISM
well I think yeah that's good move
yeah Goggins had a really interesting
way he did his he did his book where he
actually didn't read it he had a friend
read it and then in between paragraphs
they discussed all the different events
mmm that happened that he talked about
and he gave other details that weren't
in the book right so the audiobook is
essentially like an audio book slash
podcast yeah yeah so you're not just
getting a reading of the book you're
getting bonus material as well yeah yeah
it's really good it's really good that's
yeah I mean there's no rules of that
kind of stuff you know it's your book
alright you can kind of do whatever you
want you can even talk about how you
feel now okay that chapter sure you know
what I would change yeah you know yeah
how you feel about the material itself
and but how you interact with the facts
that you uncovered versus before yeah
yeah you there is uh I don't listen to
audiobooks much but in the van last
summer I listened to the Keith Richards
autobiography yeah yeah is interesting
he reads like the beginning and then
this actor who sounds like him how's the
same accent reads most of it and then
Johnny Depp reads a couple of chapters
and then Keith comes back at the end
well that was one of the weird things
about Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas was
Johnny Depp reading Hunter Thompson and
then in a wet you know honestly did a
better job of reading Hunter Thompson
than Hunter Thompson has done reading
Hunter Thompson yeah you know there's
that famous speech about being there at
the end of the 60s and watching the
waves pull back shore you know a crested
at the Rocky Mountains and then rolled
back into yeah that's a fantastic speech
but the way Johnny Depp said it was
better yeah like have you ever seen
breakfast with hunter yes do you
remember he freaks out about that
particular yes it's because who is it
Alex well they were gonna animate it
they were gonna animate it yeah and he
fucking pulls out the gun and kicks them
off the property and totally
loses his shit you're gonna take the
best thing I've ever written and make it
a fucking cartoon yeah yeah I think that
I used to go off he was so crazy did you
ever meet him no angry angry that I
never met him yeah yeah I would love to
meet him
yeah and you probably were probably a
few years there where I could have could
have yeah fuck yeah there's a few people
Dick Gregory he's one that I really wish
I met hmm I would have loved to talk to
him about what it was like to show the
Kennedy assassination footage on Geraldo
Rivera like 10 plus years after the fact
you know there's a pruder film yeah he
introduces a pruder film to the world
really yeah
dick Gregory's like a black comedian
Yeah right
yeah I remember yeah he brought the
Zapruder film to Geraldo Rivera and they
played the Kennedy assassination on
television shit hadn't been seen now
publicly no not only they had not been
seen publicly I believe Time magazine
owned it I think they bought the rights
to it so you see if that's true
and they shelved it for I want to say 12
years it was like 75 when it aired on
television
somewhere in that range and you know the
assassination was 63 what is it 63 I
think it was 63 I was born in 62 yeah
yes it was right after I was born and so
no one had seen his head go back into
the left until that footage and then
people like wait what really which
doesn't necessarily get the rights I do
not remember huh I think I don't
remember who else have you met Verner
Hertzog I've not are you Indian yes one
of the best unintentional comedies ever
and I don't think it's a particularly
unintentional there's a fucking moment
in that film where the sheriff when the
sheriff's talking about like the body
and they carrying the body off in bags
yeah it's like you know what did you
think well first time I heard about it I
thought he was retarded and then the kid
just has a smash
- the sheriff's face and I'm fuckin
howling yeah I'm howling laughing and
I'm like this guy did this on purpose
like there's so many cuts in this movie
that are so humorous yeah I got to thank
that and Werner Herzog's have you ever
heard him on Eric Weinstein podcast no
brilliant guy oh yeah he's really
interesting intense guy and very dark
sense of humor oh yeah yeah yeah well
that's why I thought I was like this
motherfucker did this on purpose yeah I
made this a comedy so do you think that
what was the name of the character
Timothy Treadwell yes yeah yes when I
watched that movie my feeling was this
guy is closeted gay dude 100% yeah you
felt that he brings up if I was gay it
would be easy but I'm not gay right so
he says because you say why can't I find
a girl you know he's like walking
through the woods with this like lispy
gay way of talking yeah and he's talking
to the four people don't know what this
documentary is about it's about a guy
named Timothy Treadwell and Timothy
Treadwell was well I guess you could say
he was a bear expert but not really
because the real bear experts were like
this guy doesn't know what the fuck he's
doing get out of there
like what he's doing is Rudy doesn't
need to protect these bears he's
pretending that he's protecting these
bears he's living with them I think
there was a certain element of it that
was suicide by bear yeah I really do and
he was walking through the woods holding
this camcorder getting film going if I
was gay I'd be so easy right talking not
camcorder as his only friend yes he's
out there alone for months yeah every
summer but no one who's not gay says
well if I was gay you'll be really easy
and I said that a lot unless you're
being funny with a friend yeah well if I
was gay I'll just hook up with some
dudes but he's saying it like why can't
I find a girl if I was gay be so easy no
wouldn't you're still living the woods
with monsters I'm gonna get a bunch of
gay guys gay guys they want to be in
Boystown okay they should remake the
movie in a bear bar on Broadway that
would be hilarious yeah
stead of doing it with the forest in
actual grizzly bears in the West Village
yeah yeah if I was gay bees bears
everywhere I went to a bear bar with
Andrew Sullivan and Dan Savage there's
there's actually a bear bar oh there are
lots of bear bars they call bear bars
yeah yes and for people don't know what
we're talking about bears are big hairy
gay guys gay guys think Tom Segura and
Bert Kreischer
two bears one cave oh do it
that's hilarious but neither one of them
is gay but yeah that's not the point but
if they were gay they'd be big yeah yeah
yeah I don't know bears dan Savage is a
trip I've had him on the park yeah yeah
I know I saw that it was interesting
he's an interesting guy he's he's super
smart and funny as shit yeah and he's
armed with nothing but a sense of humor
and a great intellect and a big heart
he's an honesty yeah yeah he's changed
the world he saves who knows how many
lives you know he's a he's beautiful I
really like Daniel yeah when someone can
just be themselves again you know that's
who he is and Timothy Treadwell if he
had listened to Dan Savage everything
would be different
well that leap man that coming out leap
fuck it's got to be so hard for people I
know several guys that are closeted and
it's torturous yeah
torturous to see and one of them you
know I've talked to him most like just
come out man no one gives a fuck we
don't care yeah okay you it'll be a
giant relief you know just they worry
about especially you know actors you
know they worry about the careers yeah
yeah I mean what you know when your
career is more important than the the
integrity of yourself I don't think it
hurts you I don't believe it
yeah I don't believe it the only thing
that would hurt with actors is leading
man yeah Raul Hudson kind of guy yeah
that's one thing that's fucking real
like if you're out I got on know if Tom
Cruise is gay but that's always been
this stupid rumor right let's let's
assume it's true
yeah if he did come out of the closet
man nobody wants to go see a movie where
he's a leading man he's got a wife and
kids
you'd be like that guy sucking dick
look you'll never buy into it that's
like a gay woman like Jodie Foster right
could easily play a straight woman right
in a movie and no one care fine but when
a gate that's that that is the fucking
glass ceiling in Hollywood it's one of
them right when a gay man comes out of
the closet those roles with John
Travolta or whatever it is whoever
whoever would be I don't he's gay either
but if he was that's that fuckin that's
that's where the buck stops you cannot
be the leading man who's the married guy
with kids yeah or the the hot man who's
you know in a sexual relationship with a
woman if we know that you're having sex
with men but then it's funny right we
can watch straight actors pretend to be
gay like mountain that's no problem sure
no problem
yeah very strange yeah it's it's that's
one of the last open prejudices that we
all accept because no one's been able to
bridge that gap except what's that
dude's name that fucking's got three
names little skinny guy used to be on a
sitcom How I Met Your Mother
mmm Neil Patrick Harris yeah do he house
it yeah that guy he's openly gay and did
he play a womanizer on a sitcom I think
on how I made mother yeah yeah I've
never watched it but the thing about
sitcoms is they're like plays like those
kind of sitcoms in front of an audience
they're horseshit mmm you know it's like
it's not it's not like a movie there's
worse shit you know you know it's
horseshit everyone knows it's horseshit
anything with a laugh track I'm very
suspicious or studio audience
like happy days like I love Henry
Winkler but the Fonz
yeah that's horseshit no wait he's Henry
Winkler Jay no I don't think so maybe I
always assumed he was because he was so
overcompensating with the Fonz I think
there was a character meet him in real
life he is the nicest guy I've ever met
yeah he's in Barry now right yeah he
plays an acting coach and Barry I
haven't seen a guy here that's never
seen Barry he's a fly fisherman he wrote
a book on fly fishing and I think the
books called I never met an idiot on the
river hmm because like there's something
about fly-fishing and fly-fishing is a
very weird pursuit
because a lot of it is catch and release
yeah which as a person who enjoys the
outdoors and enjoys eating fish that I
catch I'm very torn on that activity
that catch and release activity I know
it's fun and I have done it I get it but
it's weird it's weird you're sticking a
hook gonna say if they vomit eise's the
fish it's got to they got a how many of
them died well fly-fishing very few
because you're dealing with barbless
hooks for the most part so it just goes
into this cartilage in their mouth they
don't really feel and then allegedly
don't really feel I don't know if they
feel it and then you know they pull it
out and they're fine but there's some
catch and release especially with like
three prong barbed hooks where the
animals definitely die you know they get
they get caught in their gills and they
start bleeding from their gills and then
you have to release them anyway because
the you know some places the regulation
is catch and release yeah but people
love doing it they find like peace like
drifting a fly past this area where the
fish is lying dormant and then you pull
the fly and then the fish grabs it then
you got them
oh boy but you tapping into this sort of
primal reward system that you have in
your DNA that makes you want to catch
these fish what is your reason to be out
by the river out in the morning normally
it's morning or dusk when the Flies are
landing I think I've been hunting but
since the last time you and I spoke yeah
bow hunting you went bow hunting yeah
yeah
on Hawaii Big Island Oh actually won a
200 with cow Kingsbury yeah and
Greenfield that wasn't deer axis deer
trip Tamala you have a bow I do how do
you often you practice since I went
hunting not much but before I went every
day yeah I was I was in Java coach nope
I had some friends who you know helped
me out and I watched them you know cam
your buddy him here yeah I watch them
his videos but yeah it was it was an
interesting experience so first I went
on that trip with yeah Peter
attea Bhatia and Ben Greenfield like all
these podcasts human optimizations
my buddy Kyle tier meant his big wave
surfer okay he spends a lot of time in
Hawaii and he knows a lot of people
there Healy Jeff Healey I think big big
surfer dude anyway so he knew all these
people and I guess
Aubrey and some other those guys sort of
asked him to hook them up with a trip
and so he put it all together and then
at the last minute I think Aubrey
couldn't go I think cuz you were coming
down to Austin and he wanted to you know
coordinate with you or something
so they said yo Chris if you want to go
it's it's all paid for
and I'm like helicopters Hawaii yeah so
did you have to practice leading up to
that or where you're already shooting
above I was already shooting because we
had my Kyle and I Kyle chairman and I
had already planned a trip for like
three weeks after that so I was already
practicing for that which was going to
be a pig hunting trip on the Big Island
but then I went on this deer thing but
mainly I went on the deer thing just
because it was an opportunity to fly
around in helicopters and see Molokai
which is amazing Brian but I didn't hunt
on that because I didn't honestly I
didn't want to hurt anything
mm-hmm you know I didn't feel like you
were competent enough no you want to do
it well the deer are farther away and
they're much harder they're much more
aware and like socking them as a lot
harder and so I just basically hung out
and had a good time they're so hard yeah
they're so that that animal access deer
is an animal that evolved to get away
from Tigers right they're the fastest
thing I've ever hunted yeah super alert
I hunted with campaigns and I'm not
looking
no unlit I and John Dudley just just
before you guys went and we were there
between the time we were there and the
when we were there the last spring there
was a hundred and fifty hunters that
went there to bow hunt one was
successful really everyone else pulled
out a rifle
huh everyone else like fuck this because
you can't get anywhere near those
goddamn things without them jumping but
if you can get your stocking skills down
or you can sneak up on an axis deer and
kill one with a bow holy shit that's no
that's black belt level stuff
well the dudes I were with Peter attea
he he got two or three I remember he's
very very very into it yes a super super
smart guy yeah he is yeah he's cool I
enjoyed hanging with all those dudes but
then the next you know three weeks later
we went Kyle and me and Simon Rex I know
if you know him he's a actor slash
comedian - Rast her nasty rapper yeah
he's a good friend of mine anyway we
went on this pig hunting trip and that
was interesting that was you know I said
I wanted to have the experience because
I never hunted I never killed anything
and I eat meat so I felt like I have
this you know responsibility to have the
experience and confront it and all that
and I was actually the first of our
group to kill a pig and it was strange I
didn't feel sad or traumatized
I felt heightened awareness you know
like but I and I think I might hunt
again I'm probably moving to Colorado
I just bought land in Colorado oh yeah
what part sort of South Central it's a
tiny little town and yeah it's it's a
interesting area there but anyway
there's a lot of elk hunting there and
I'll probably do some elk hunting with
local people you gonna do it with a bow
yeah no I think I'll use a rifle yeah
cuz I think that's the way to go yeah
not gonna be completely obsessed and do
it every day I'm not yeah because I
don't do that yeah and also I don't you
know the thing about a bow is in maybe
this is what you're implying here if
you're not really good the chances of
you of an elk running off or a pig
running off with an arrow in its ass and
dying a slow horrible death is quite
high if you hit him with a rifle right
powered rifle with a scope you know and
you're in there still you can still
wound them but you know it's your much
more competent with a rifle and it's a
better it's a better meat gathering tool
right good way to talk it yeah describe
it and Colorado has I think twice as
many elk is any other state real injury
yeah Colorado is one of the best places
in the world to elk hunt yeah so that's
a good spot if you're looking and also
you're taking a life you take an elk
that's a lot of meat mm-hmm I shot this
pig it was about you know it was a
yearling I think it's not a lot of meat
on a pig that size No so yeah it's but
it was in it was interesting are you
living in this van are you now having a
party I still have an apartment in LA
but I'm about to give it up I think just
to just be a nomad yeah cuz I mean I was
in the van all of five months and it's
like okay I'm paying rent what like four
to leave my clothes there face it right
like I don't really need to be doing
that no I I admired that sort of a nomad
sense of life I admire I don't ever see
myself doing it yeah this romantic
aspect to it that's undeniable well your
life's different man you have kids you
know your your give a life here that's
really you've built over a lot of time
you know I just got here a few years to
that though in a certain way you're a
prisoner to all your obligations there's
no sure that's one of the things that
man took about this nomadic thing that
you're doing yeah it's like you know I
have to come here have certain amount
podcasts up to week but you're sick Joe
you'd uh I don't I'd I mean that's I was
thinking about we're talking about the
you know closeted gay actors what what
is money worth if you can't buy your
freedom with it mm-hmm your freedom to
be who you are right as a closeted gay
person right let's say what is it good
for I'm that's the first thing closeted
gay folks the the real problem is like
the feeling that you're gonna be
rejected if you come out I think that's
entirely different than someone who gets
wrapped up in jobs like my other things
I could say about the jobs that I have
is that I really do enjoy them
I'm enjoying this conversation I love
talking to people yeah I love doing
stand-up love it and I still enjoy doing
the UFC
those are my three jobs and I don't do
the UFC as much as I used to
would you do them all if you were making
100 grand a year total um I mean I
certainly obviously could live off 100
grand a year yeah that's what I've made
a year so so the money isn't what makes
them fun no it's just it's the thing
itself
they're definitely that's what's made
the money what's made the money is my
I'm gonna think right I think it's my
enjoyment of the things right that's
made them interesting like one of the
things about podcasts and I think
they're it there's a parallel and
stand-up is that genuine enthusiasm like
real legitimate enthusiasm is contagious
yeah and if you're genuinely interested
in talking to people and genuinely
curious it's interesting to listen to
right and you know you do your best to
get out of your own way and you do your
best I do my best to not be annoying and
fuckup sometimes there's no there's no
if ands or buts about it I'm a human
being and I've done but you cop to it
when you do which i think is another
thing that's endearing and I mean you're
really interesting cases I'm sure you
know and I've watched you even since
I've known you like your profile has
moved much closer to mainstream American
you know popular you were you were
mentioned on fucking Saturday Night Live
a couple weeks ago yeah we're right yeah
you know and there where there's some
article about Joe right where is it in
Harper's or the New Yorkers something
recently I read like super mainstream
and but you're really interesting
because you're like this man's man but
you're also vulnerable you know you're
also like you admit when you fuck up
like you had someone at the Twitter guy
on and you're like yeah I wasn't
prepared I fucked that out and you had
him back and that's cool that's and it's
probably I don't know is it hard for you
to maintain that kind of humility when
you're getting all this pressure and
opportunities and all this stuff coming
in
I don't think so no I think that's just
being honest you know if you I mean I
think if I'd stopped if I fucked up and
I stopped admitting that I was fucking
up it would all go off the Royals
doesn't know well I couldn't maintain
Who I am
I would be thinking about it all the
time right you'd be like back to the
closet your closeted exactly
yeah you just be pretending you're
cooler than you are I think but part of
being a human being is making mistakes
it's a messy thing to be a person you
know and I mean I'm also big on
forgiveness and I think you have to be
because human beings are fallible and
like we're saying we vary from moment to
the next and to try to hold someone to
who they were six months ago or a year
ago or five years ago or what they said
or what they did and not accept it and
hold a grudge to me that's crazy I don't
like what you do you want people to do
that to you that's what kind of life is
that what kind of civilization are we
creating where people hold grudges and
yeah and and don't forgive people for
things of the past but you also have to
be able to forgive yourself that's I
struggle with that way more believe it
or not then I struggle with forgiving
other people right I can forgive other
people pretty easy for whatever reason
I've always been able to you know I'm
always so what's what's the difference
I'm super self-critical and I have
definitely some sort of obsessive
compulsive disorder that allows me to
get really good at things because I
obsess you know it's probably unhealthy
but I manage it but like the the mania
that goes on in my mind I just figured
out a way to put it to use
right it's like okay I got this fucking
engine like what do I stick it out let
me stick a thing in there and I could
drill a hole with that instead of just
having it go away a lot of people do a
lot of people don't find a focus for
whatever mania they have going on in
their mind so I've found various things
that's one of the reasons why I don't
ever see myself not doing anything I
don't have enough time that's my issue
there's a lot of things that I love to
do you know that I just don't have the
time for do you feel like you're how old
are you 52 do you feel like you're
you've sort of figuring things out
always yeah I mean like I have the sense
57 I have the sense that like I like I
don't know like I'm I finally learned to
dance and the party's almost over and
finally figuring this shit out and I'm
almost 60 well I remember when I was
like 26 25 and when I first came out
here I remember thinking bye boy bye
time 152 I'll fucking everything solved
there's arbitrary numbers that we have
in our head of who you should be yeah at
50 or 60 or whatever the number is and
that's you're just alive man you're just
alive and while you're alive you better
forget about all those numbers we were
thinking like now the year 2000 when
year 2000 comes like what's that gonna
be like wow I'm gonna be so old and yeah
it's almost 2020 it's gonna be 2020 in a
couple of months that's crazy that is
such a number that's so crazy
yeah well that's why I love living in
the van dude yeah I mean I've you know
so much has had since you and I said I
don't know a year or so since we've seen
each other yeah my dad's died I'm living
in the van they're supposed to come out
like all the stuffs happening but I've
spent most of the time sitting by a
campfire looking at the Stars
you know it's fucking the the times that
I get outside
like when I elk hunt every year and I
spend time particularly in Utah in the
mountains the place that we go it's just
it's cleansing in a way that is so hard
to describe it's so hard to describe
what it's like just to be out there in
the woods and be in the forest and be
with the wild animals and you know it's
your home yeah that's what this books
about I don't mean to push the
conversation to the book but that's why
I wrote the book like we are designed by
evolution civilized to the level now
available at stores near you in Amazon
and all the other stuff we're designed
to live in that work yes so that's why
it feels so good
that's why golf courses look the way
they do mm-hmm you know even fucking you
know old executives love being out there
on the grass and the water and the
undulating hills it's the African
savannah Wow I know even it when it's
manicured right it still feels good
feels good to be connected to nature it
feels good to be on a lake yeah lakes
are the best man do sit on the dock of a
lake like there's a feeling of like you
know you look out you treat you've ever
been a Coeur d'Alene yeah is there this
summer I haven't but a friend of mine
has a house there and I saw a picture of
the water and like you look all the way
down like 100 feet deep yeah down you
see the bottom like it's like a piece of
glass yeah this is bananas yeah I didn't
take a shower for about three months
mr. smelled amazing I smelled great cuz
every morning I jumped in a river oh it
was you know every ounce yeah oh yeah
you so poor no I know I mean use soap in
a decade oh Jesus okay how weird yeah my
microbiome is is working well but
there's art of motion written about that
by by people that say you shouldn't use
so ya know a lot of them cuz you're
disrupting your microbiome yeah you
don't I mean I use deodorant there's
quarterly yeah sand points really nice
to Idaho is great I know is gorgeous I
love Boise yeah in Montana western
Montana
oh yeah methane yeah look how pretty
that is though god damn that Lake and
yeah when you have a boat on a lake it's
like you have a car but there's no road
everything is a road it's all flat yeah
so you can go wherever the fuck you want
same thing with airplanes it's amazingly
dimensional that's even crazier you end
up flying well my friend bill has well
he is a helicopter license oh yeah and
he took Oh bill burr yeah yeah yeah he
took me around his helicopter that's
pretty lot about that I was like that
might be a cool thing to get into but
that's hard he's spent yeah he's spent a
lot of time learning how to fly and it's
expensive mm-hmm yeah but a
single-engine airplane you can die 100
grand you get a decent single-engine
airplane you can go wherever you want my
uncle has an amphibious plane so he
lands on lakes
yeah and he used to could he land on
ground - yeah
so that's em fibia so it has wheels and
floats does you have to switch things up
or yeah so if you just change out the no
no you just push a button the wheels
retracts oh no shit yeah he forgot once
and flipped it how many people fly drunk
yeah I bet they do
Yeah right well if the weather is good
there wasn't that like a Patrick Swayze
thing like before he kicked the bucket
we said we laughing about
no you laugh about something huh
Harrison oh right was he drunk Ford
might have been might have been might
have been or might maybe the old dude
old dudes look drunk all the time and
babies yeah that is that's that's a
great way to achieve privacy - right you
like your if you're a guy like Harrison
Ford I mean that guy it must be hard for
that guy to go anywhere Yeah right it's
probably real hard for him to go to a
regular Airport yeah yeah I've got the
perfect amount of fame I was thinking
about this today on the airplane flying
down from Portland I'm like I was in the
front row so I had extra like legroom
but I wasn't in business class that's
that's where I am in Fame I want to stay
right there
a little lesser egg right maybe normal
stretch your legs out some people
recognize me but they all like me if you
don't like me you don't know who the
hell I am
mmm that's nice yeah so you're at a
different level there are people who
recognize you who are like it fuck I got
you me nothing I mean you get most
people are nice
yeah even you know even people that
don't like you they don't really know
you right if they knew you at some image
they have I'm nice if you know me you
meet me I guarantee we're probably gonna
get off yeah and if we don't I'm gonna
work hard to make it I'm not
uncomfortable yeah you know it's just
the thing about people liking people not
liking people a lot of it is this
severely limited way of communicating
especially when it's one-way right if
you're putting out a podcast or you're
putting out books yeah and they're
reading your shit but they don't get to
interact at all that builds resentment
there's no there's a lot of weird
resentment that people develop when they
listen to you
right
they don't get to interact like say yeah
especially if someone like me who's
always talking shit right I'm oh I talk
shit for a living basically and I'm
always giving my opinions and some
people have a problem maybe even a
strong point that I probably even agree
with them and they don't get to say
anything so they're sitting in homeless
and like fuck this guy I'm tired of bull
yeah you occupy space in their life yes
and but they don't they don't you owe
them something yes yes and that makes
sense I mean there make sense yeah yeah
crude way of communicating
yeah he's one way methods of
communication are very crude yeah yeah I
mean when I was thinking my buddy Simon
and I were in a in a restaurant in
Venice and the woman recognized me and
like oh I love your podcast and gave me
your number and yeah I'll give her a
call sometimes time it's like dude I
would never do that you never never you
know interact with your fans you know
and then I was like no but Simon you
don't get it she actually knows me like
you know in Simon's case like he was in
scary movie three four or five he was a
you know he he plays these characters so
when people are like yo Simon like they
don't know him right they he's this the
face they recognize but they don't know
the dude so it's a different kind of
thing I really like the van trips what
are the van through Paulo G thing I'll
say okay I'm going to be in the you know
Boise at this beer pub Thursday at 8:00
and people show up fifty hundred people
show up really oh yeah but it's mainly
so they can meet each other so when you
do this do you do live shows no do live
shows I've never done a live show I've
done like Duncan's a couple times you
know we've done we did the was a couple
years ago we did the keynote at the
float conference in Portland oh yeah
that's a tuned in group of people but I
don't do the shows I just he noted a
float conference Duncan yeah yeah but
it's really just to build community
that's what I want to do I want them to
meet each other because they're all
beautiful weirdos
right right now hopefully yeah they are
I've never met anyone through the
podcast that I didn't really actually
like what kind of numbers do you get
like what kind of downloads how many
episodes you know it's hard to know but
probably 50,000 in episodes or something
like that that's perfect yeah yeah
that's good between fifty and a hundred
like you know when you and Duncan we're
on when we were doing the shrimp parade
thing it would you know peak because
it's you guys do you use advertising and
I didn't for five years it was
listener-supported only yeah and then
this friend of mine who has this company
mud water he was sort of launching that
and he was like dude I want to I want to
advertise on your podcast I'm like yeah
I love you buddy but I don't yeah yeah I
don't do that and he sent me an email
that email chain where he was
negotiating with another podcast that
has roughly the same audience numbers as
mine and I was like really I'm leaving
that much on the table
bug so I started at this point I only do
ads for companies that I really like and
that I use their stuff so I don't do you
know I don't have a broker or any of
that stuff
yeah I think the subscription model like
when people are paying like a paywall
the the problem is the the growth is so
limited so then you could either just do
it for free and put it out there and
maybe just sell books or sell t-shirt
Essure tour you know in my case tickets
to shows that would work all right I'm
gonna be in Cleveland this weekend and
Detroit nice
what's it like to play Detroit Detroit
that's right I love Detroit and people
they're fun people that have been there
yeah Detroit is not necessarily coming
back to where it used to be it's a bit
like what does it come back right you
know I'm never gonna be an auto industry
you get back in shape in your 70s what
you're never gonna be who you were when
you were 20 right you know it's not
never gonna be what it was I mean it was
the richest city in America at one point
in time right you know during the the
peak of automobile production I believe
it was the rich or one of the richest
cities in America
and it's a far cry from that now and
it's strange when you drive through the
town and you see these boarded up
buildings and factories with other
broken windows and just you could buy a
house for 100 bucks like it's weird it's
weird but then there's also a lot of
like craft restaurants and these
businesses that are building up and
these hippies that have kind of moved in
and you know they're kind of you know
making stuff there and there's a lot of
cool shit cheap enough to get in and do
stuff yeah yeah which is you know if
you're a young person growing up there
you know like you can make something
happen and with the internet the your
ability to establish a business and your
ability to you know to actually get
something off the ground it's so much
different than it ever has been before
yeah and and people love a good comeback
story so Detroit like a bunch of Detroit
made things could be exciting for people
like yeah Detroit mob by that yeah isn't
Detroit made you know as a company
called shinola have you ever heard yeah
the watch is really nice watches
american-made watches they make a bunch
of other stuff too like bags leather
goods things along those lines
but one of the things they proudly say
is made in Detroit and it they make cool
shit you know sort of there's something
to that you know but the place I'm
working at is the Fox Theatre and it's
just like really fucking cool old
theater and what's interesting there's
columns and it was back when people used
to be able to smoke they smoked in there
so much that all the columns are like
they have that orangey nicotine sort of
tint to them but one of the columns was
replaced so this one column is like
clear and smooth and clean and the other
ones like fucking orangey like you could
he seems he could go up to with a butter
knife and just scrape the nicotine off
of them you know but it's a beautiful
old building that was made way way way
back in the day and they said that when
it was first made it was one of the only
buildings in Detroit that had air
conditioning mmm so people would go to
see movies there and they would pay to
see movies just to say they could fall
asleep and go in there just the cool air
and they'd fall asleep during the summer
because you know people just be
sweltering yeah in the heat of the
summer I've done that in Bangkok yeah
just go
to a cinema just to get out of the heat
nice I fucking love Thailand man oh yeah
I really really enjoyed Thailand when
you went recently yeah last summer it's
like people are so nice foods gray
amazing it's the one country I'm
comfortable recommending to just about
anyone yeah because the the sort of
confluence of convenience and safety and
ease and it's still exotic and really
interesting and very foreign you know I
wouldn't recommend India to everyone or
Indonesia but Thailand it's like
whatever your tolerance is you'll find
something there that works for you yeah
I know a lot of fighters who've gone
there for camps for training camps and
wound up either moving there are
starting camps there or starting gyms
there or they just love it so much I
feel like part of their home yeah I've
been there a lot probably ten times over
the years yeah it's real cheap too yeah
in terms of like food and eating yeah
lodging the best food in the world
yeah food I've loved spicy food so it's
it's excellent and it's balanced it's
interesting it's not just like blast
your face off spices yeah really nice
yeah did you go to Laos at all no I
don't that's an interesting place yeah
good yeah yeah Viet Nam's amazing you
know I love ordains one of his fish yeah
he loved it I know I know I was there
for three months in Vietnam I didn't dig
it that much there's some really
beautiful places but I found I was
traveling with Casilla my wife who's
dark-skinned and there's a lot of racism
she got harassed a lot because everyone
assumed that she was a local and with me
makes her a prostitute and dark-skinned
makes her low-class so there was a lot
she got but dude punched her she was on
my punch yeah adolescent kid ran up we
were on a motorbike in this rice paddies
and this kid just ran up and punched her
in the back and then ran off
Wow yeah young kid like 15 or so yeah it
was pretty heavy she got she got like
physically accosted three times in
Vietnam how long were you there three
months
fuck yeah yeah so I didn't dig Vietnam
that much then we went we got to Laos
and it was in the and there was like I
mean it's it's a tough country they've
had I mean shit storm been going on
there since the forties you know or even
before that the French occupation and
all that so I I know I'm not blaming
anyone it's not a big part of the heroin
trade Laos as well it was during the
Vietnam War yeah yeah now I think
heroines more coming out of Afghanistan
yeah and in Mexico you know the cartels
you see the fucking shit that's going
down yeah there's the where the the
government and the armies have backed
down and let the car run everything yeah
well they took chapo el Chapo's son back
right yes how insane is that I mean how
is that gonna play out yeah yeah it's
interesting I'm going to Mexico in a
couple months but I'm going at different
parties where you going
Chiapas way down south on the border
with Guatemala there's I really love it
down there there's a town called san
cristobal de las casas let's up in the
the ponderosa pines 4,000 feet it's
beautiful the Indian villages around and
they come down on market day and I'm
gonna go down there and work on another
book what do you what do you right now
you know it's kind of under wraps
because I talked about this book way too
much and it slowed me down so about Neil
Young's bed can we cut that out get a
guy in trouble for saying that you
remember the first I was on this show
how fucked up it was at the beginning
what were you even aware of that what
happened so the first time I came on the
show I didn't know you right and I
didn't know anything about you cuz I was
living in Spain and Duncan I done Duncan
shows the first time I done a part I
didn't know what a podcast was I came to
LA to visit my parents I have this email
from Duncan I'm a comedian you want to
do a podcast I'm like sure never met a
comedian don't know what a podcast is so
I did it
and we had a good time and after he's
like uh you know I'd love to introduce
you to my friend Joe Rogan I think you
guys would get along and you could do
his podcast I'd never heard of Joe Rogan
right and no insult intended I just I
lived in Spain I didn't ever watch Fear
Factor I'd your whole thing was
happening over here I didn't know about
it and then I went back to Spain I was
like okay Duncan's friend Joe does this
podcast in his living room the way
Duncan does isand right and I went back
to Spain and I was talking to my buddy
voodoo who's a tattoo artist and he's
like so how was it last like yeah cool I
did a podcast with his comedian it was
really fun and interesting and he's like
oh you should do Joe Rogan's podcast I'm
like dude how do you know Duncan's
friend Joe right there's this whole
weird things like no dude Joe Rogan's uh
so I tried to tell you that story the
first time I came and the point of the
story is I'm an idiot I don't know
what's going on right I'm oblivious but
we got to the point where I said I
didn't know you and you were like so
would you do Google me and I was like
well not really and then and then we had
to do a sound check or you had to do an
ad or something and it got the story got
interrupted and I felt like you thought
I was trying to dis you or something I
definitely didn't yeah well I was
paranoid then you lit up a joint and I'm
like fuck if I don't hit this joint that
I'm confirmed asshole here so I hit the
joint even though I hadn't smoked any
weed in months and it was this like
California weed I'm holding literally I
remember I'm holding the bottom of my
chair trying not to fall out of the
chair and and we start talking and I'm
telling the story about a dude that I'd
met on an airplane and he was super into
sex at dawn and then we were gonna do a
movie together and whatever and then his
wife like took the book away from him do
you remember oh yeah yeah yeah yeah and
and then I was just like oh fuck I
shouldn't have told that story that you
know this this whole I'm fucking
everything up and I said to you can we
just because we're like five minutes in
at this point and I was like Joe can we
just like cut this and start over
and you looked at me he said is live
bitch you don't remember any of that I
do now I do now oh man I knew the guy
yeah yeah exactly and and you were like
to say his name and then I said you're
like he's a friend of mine and I'm like
oh shit I should have said his name and
the whole thing yeah and then I left
Kissel des was here in the studio and we
left we got in the car and I said man
was that as awkward as I felt and she's
like that's the worst I've ever seen you
establish a great friendship yeah yeah I
don't know maybe you enjoyed what should
we suffer I don't know I do enjoy
watching people get too high it's not a
suffer thing it's like I've been there
it's a commiseration thing I think I uh
one of the things about these sober
October things is you realize like
there's so many things that are so much
easier when you're not high yeah you
know it's almost like you handicap
yourself by getting baked like yeah well
I was talking to read ban Brian read ban
about this we were talking about like
how the early days of podcast we would
get obliterated before we do the podcast
like for years like up until like maybe
two thousand thirteen or fourteen like
we would I had a volcano you know it
fills up this bag and you take these big
deep hits off this THC vapor and then as
soon as you put the bag down and we like
okay let's get going let's start the
podcast and be like oh my god what have
we done and it was this feeling every
time we did the podcast was oh my god
what have we done and you'd be in the
middle of saying something and as you're
saying like what am I talking about yeah
I don't even know what I'm talking about
and then you would say oh no no it's not
that like you would screw things up
you get scrambled in your head when
there's no pot at all that never happens
like you mean you might make mistakes
but you know what you're talking about
while you're talking about it right like
when you're really really high like that
there's a lot of times where you're
talking about stuff well you literally
don't know exactly what you
talking about yeah it's like that split
personality thing we were talking about
it really marijuana has so many pros but
it's got some cons like everything in
life like like and good things and bad
things and food and sleep there's pros
and cons and then the cons become very
evident when you're not doing it you
know I still think every time I do these
sober October things I always think well
I'm gonna cut back I'm gonna cut back on
some weed and I think I did last year
like after October I was like I am NOT
gonna do it as much as I used to do it
do you drink yeah a little bit like wine
beer I love wine with meals yeah yeah if
I have a nice meal I love a glass red
wine yeah I like a cold beer a hot day
love that yeah yeah yeah I love that
yeah I lived in steena I lived in Spain
25 years or something and like over
there wine is like water yeah that you
have wine with breakfast it's really oh
yeah
yeah it's it's just part of life it's
like olive oil it's on everything that's
funny because I just saw a restaurant
was at a restaurant I was using the
wrath of the bathroom and they had a
sign up that said a meal without wine is
called breakfast hmm so that's Italian
yeah and in Spain they're like fuck it
yeah I mean not everyone's doing it but
workers like you see workers in a bar
you know they have their sandwiches and
a glass of wine yeah some coffee with a
little Bailey's in it nothing wrong with
that there's nothing wrong with if you
handle it well you know when I got to
Spain I remember talking to people like
wow alcohols everywhere and it's not
like liquor licenses here like every
cafes serving wine and beer and whatever
you just sell it it's everywhere yeah
yeah and kids are there and it's it's
just you know it's not set aside that's
right and the Spanish guy said to me you
know in Spain we have many alcoholics
but no drunks and it's true like you
don't see people puking in the street
you know raging drunken lunatics like
you know in the US what about like
sports events like soccer games they
sell beer full-strength beer I don't
remember if they sell wine and
yeah I mean Barcelona is a special place
I don't know what it's like in Madrid I
never went to a soccer game in Madrid
but Barcelona the Catalans are sort of
dry very self-contained people so you
know there's no raging and right now
there's rioting going on but that's a
political thing whether they're rioting
over Catalan independence yeah then
something happened today in Hong Kong I
don't know some something I've been out
of the Lucid of Hong Kong Hong Kong
protests have been going on for so long
I know yeah it's months and months and
months it's like intense and chilly now
- and Santiago Chile people are rioting
yes it's getting interesting it's
heating up yeah it's it's a strange time
to be alive really is across the board
yeah I feel like we're at an inflection
point what's going on Hong Kong freeze
murder suspect - whose case led to
protests Oh interesting
well they're trying to trying to take
the air out of it yeah I feel you have a
red joseph campbell yeah so the the hero
with a thousand faces his observation
that societies all over the world have
basically the same origin myth which is
the Odyssey rights the person goes out
and has all these challenges and faces
their fears and learns all the stuff and
then returns home with the knowledge
that they've gained and they realize
that what they were looking for all the
time is actually at home right I feel
like as a species we're at the point in
that journey where we're turning toward
home that's my that's sort of the
underwriting narrative of this book that
what we're where we are now is we've
learned enough that we can go back to or
go toward a way of living that
replicates in important ways where we
came from so you're doing it you're
hunting you're spending time in nature
you know we're looking at different ways
of raising kids we're looking at you
know paleo diet
fasting
controlling the frequency of the light
that comes into our eyes at night and
they're all these there's this awareness
that the way forward requires an
understanding of where we came from
so I kind of feel when I'm having a good
day I feel like we're at this point now
this crisis point where these
institutions central institutions of
Western civilization are collapsing
around us you know they're just
government Wall Street religion it's all
just like being exposed as you know
incompetent and useless and in many
cases and but we've learned these really
interesting things like birth control
and passive energy and all you know
different ways of living on the earth
without destroying it and so the sort of
metaphor I use in the book is that we're
gonna live in zoos right but do we want
to live in the Calcutta Zoo or the San
Diego Zoo and I feel like you know what
we're seeing now is we're clearly in a
moment of massive global change and I
hope that what the opportunity will
that's being presented is to redesign
human existence in a way that's more in
accordance with our nature mmm does that
make sense yeah as I'm struggling to be
optimistic I'm glad I'm optimistic too I
just yeah I always wonder if the numbers
are just unmanageable well that's why I
mentioned birth control Yeah right like
we know how to reduce global population
but people want babies they but why do
they want baby because it what's the
incentive for women I think there's a
biological need there's a feeling that
something not all women but many women
have yeah where they have that
biological clock it's telling them to
have a baby when they have a baby I mean
you've seen women that have children
it's a it's the most intense bonding the
most intense release of oxytocin the
most intense love and and feeling of of
connection with another living creature
that I've ever experienced that I could
ever explain to someone and it's a
natural part of being a human being it
also chain
who you are as a person when you are
responsible for these little people and
then you have the love for these little
people like Dave Chappelle said to me
want something that really resonated he
said not only has it changed how much I
love it changed my capacity for love and
that that resonated I was like that's
what it is like it changes how much you
changed how I feel about other people
and you know the experience for a man is
entirely different than it is for a
woman because the woman literally
creates the being in her body right a
baby is growing inside a woman's body
and then she gives birth to it with a
man he you do what you always do you
fuck her you know and but now you have a
baby and it's undeniable that you love
the baby you love your child but you did
not have the experience of having it
grow inside your body which I think
isn't a connection that's no man is ever
gonna understand yeah you're never gonna
just I don't think it's possible to
understand what a woman experiences when
she has a baby grow inside of her body
but then what had changed for me which
was a big one was it made me look at
people instead of looking at them like
static beings you see the whole thing
yeah I looked at them I was like oh that
was a baby yeah Christopher Ryan he's
taking a baby I was cute too I bet you
were adorable yeah and now he yeah I
mean this is yeah this is something
that's missing in our experience when we
don't we're not there and we don't see
that little person become a big person
yeah you know that's what that's missing
I feel like I've gained you know this is
part of what I was referring to earlier
where I said like you know we're
learning to dance and the party's almost
over I I feel I don't have kids
I've been around kids but I feel like
when I was in my 20s let's say I sort of
worked this out recently in
relationships that I think I think there
are three things there's attraction
there's compatibility and there's love
mm-hmm and I look at a lot of my
relationships
women they had two of those hmm always
love yeah sometimes the sex was great
and sometimes the compatibility was
great and very rarely all three of those
but I used to think love was a really
limited scarce experience in life and
the older I get the more I feel like no
love is I could love anybody hmm if I
spent enough time with them and got to
know them
I'd feel love for them right you know
that's not hard to find it's it seems
it's everywhere mm-hmm and when I was
young I thought it was really hard to
find well for some people it is you know
some people it is it's hard to find
someone who loves them and some people
are burdened down like you're you're
very free in the sense that because you
have this unusual way of making money
and you have you don't have a lot of
needs you don't need a lot of material
things some people are very burdened by
these needs you know and they're not
free and they're confined to a job and
it's very difficult for them to meet
anybody right and they're all so
stressed out all the time it is a bills
and horseshit and then work politics and
work dynamics you know dealing with the
fucking environment of the office yeah
and you got a boss that's an asshole
who's like you know you have board
meetings and shit and everybody's gonna
sit there and get cancer one asshole
talks you know the board table and some
guys what we got to do with this company
you know the matrix and I need you to be
here after work I need you you're here
9:00 to 5:00 I want to see a real
commitment I want to you know what I'm
we're a family 7 yeah when I'm leaving
at 7 I want to see you still here
working yeah and then it's hard to meet
somebody it's hard to find love yeah
okay you're certainly you're right about
that I I didn't really mean in a dating
sense so much is just like compassion
sense okay you know what I mean right
that everybody's loveable sure you know
like one of the things that I love doing
in my podcast is meeting somebody who's
never told their story before and never
even thought of their life in terms of a
narrative and in the course of the
podcast having them realize
fucking interesting they are and how
interesting their life is but I've had
people like break into tears and stuff
you know because they've never thought
like no one's ever asked right
you know everybody's interesting
everybody's got some kind of bizarre
story to tell
often they don't know it you know and I
feel the same way like everybody's
lovable every I'm not talking about
romantic I know what you're saying
you're just like yeah and it and you
reminded me of what you're talking about
seeing the full person's life sometimes
I've looked at like women that I was
with who were you know 35 years old and
I let see the old lady in them mm-hmm be
moved by that you know like you're gonna
be a beautiful old lady I'll be dead
yeah I see that I'm like I gotta get out
of here before she becomes an all day I
see menopause coming anybody angry yeah
no I know what you're saying
I know what you're saying and I mean
everybody's lovable to somebody right I
mean unless you're a fucking psychopath
I had it I added another thing I put on
my list here I wanted to mention I
almost as a public service
sleep apnea hmm I have sleep apnea and I
have you know about this yeah do you
snore I have a mouthpiece you have the
the CPAP machine oh you do the job no no
it's different holds my tongue down
right tongue from sliding back world
difference changed everything that's
that's why I wanted to mention it like
anybody who's got like I I was not
breathing for 20 seconds at a time
and yeah this this woman I was sleeping
with like actually counted you know and
she's like dude you're choking you're
suffocating yeah so I went and got a
test it's super easy you take it home
and hook this thing in your finger and
all that and they told me I think it was
like 25 episodes per hours considered
severe I had 70 for every minute I was
suffocating to the point where I sort of
woke up and like my throat tissue
you know the muscles contract so you can
breathe again so you're like always at
the surface I got one of those machines
dude I'm like sleep
being again I'm dreaming it's fantastic
now do you have a hard time put that
putting that thing in your mouth no no
it's no problem it's like since it's
like scuba diving you got a regulator
you know I mean the one eye you have the
full-face one that goes over your nose
and your mouth if you tend to breathe
through your mouth or they have them
that just go over your nose which one do
you have I have both I started because I
used the nose one and then I was
breathing through my mouth and that's
all weird so then I got the big one but
after a month with that now I just used
the nose one now that pumps air right
what it does is it creates air pressure
mhm but just very slow what it's
adjustable it adjusts based on your
reaction to it and so when you are when
you're breathing the air pressure keeps
the passages open so it can be
anatomical it can be your tongue falling
back I had a sweater man yeah so it
keeps the the passage open it's just the
slight pressure and it's really nice
because you take a it's like you take a
deep breath and it fills your lungs
because there's just that little extra
push
mm-hm and it's totally quiet like
there's all this stigma around it like
people think it's really like gross or
loud or whatever it's not that much the
new machines are great they have a
humidifier in them so you can adjust the
do you how do you power it up when
you're camping and stuff well I've got
electrical system in the van and I also
have a backup battery a little lithium
battery that's all you need you know
power the whole night like that yeah if
you don't use the humidifier if you use
the humidifier it sucks up more because
it's it's a heating thing you know does
the unifier help yeah it's great because
you can adjust it you know like you're
in LA we're in a desert it's dry so you
can turn it up if you're you know I was
in Seattle to turn it off doesn't matter
so let's just change the way you you
feel I feel so much better I'm like
sleeping through the night I dream again
yeah
I didn't I mean I feel kind of
evangelical about it because you know I
know a lot of people have this men and
women and there's this weird kind of
shame around it and I'm just trying to
be everything to be shameful yeah fuck
it man sleep you gotta sleep it's really
important it makes everything better
you're like 50% more likely to have car
accidents if you have sleep oh oh yeah
yeah it'll fuck up your job it'll fight
you won't get hard-ons it'll like ruin
everything
some people it's really bad too and it
goes on for years and years and years
they don't even know about I was on a
plane once and there was a guy behind me
and I would hear yeah I turned around
and I was like oh this poor bastard he
was a big guy like very overweight and I
mean I was watching this guy lying there
with his mouth open like this Suffolk a
long time and then finally he would
jostle and catch some air and he woke up
and I said hey man and I said do you
know you have sleep apnea he said what
do you mean and I said okay I mean let
me tell you what's going on and I showed
him my mouthpiece I don't know I have
this thing and I have to sleep with cuz
it was a long flight we're on and I said
you gotta go to a doctor get that
checked out and he goes oh okay thanks I
go no no really yeah you got to go to a
doctor I go this is gonna it'll change
your life
heart disease like a lot of bad shit can
hat also affects people's dietary
choices because when you're exhausted
like that I know how I am like last
night I was tired I came home from the
improv it was like 1 o'clock in the
morning I should not have eaten but I
was like fuck it and I made a peanut
butter and jelly sandwich i won again I
definitely shouldn't add that jalapenos
man well I just felt like peanut butter
and jelly yeah bad choice
but when you're tired you make bad
choices right and that make bad dietary
choices it's a very very common yeah
people are exhausted and overworked and
I think that has to apply to people with
sleep apnea yeah when you're you're
always exhausted like throughout the day
you're just sucking down coffee and
trying to stay awake yeah yeah dry my
dad had it for sure mm-hmm and he never
had it treated and
yeah maybe that's another reason that
I'm sort of evangelical about it because
it's like it's so easy so many of the
things that mess up our lives are really
hard to address like you know the litany
of things you were talking about board
meetings and all yeah but you know if
you can get a good night's sleep for you
know a visit to a doctor and in I mean
this thing cost 800 bucks for this
machine I have yeah it changes your
whole life your whole life solves the
problem now you know like that's pretty
cool it's pretty fucking cool some
people have a problem with those CPAP
machines but maybe it's just the kind
they use Joey Diaz changed his life mmm
started using that thing he brings it
guys got a portable unit it brings them
on planes yeah brings it everywhere yeah
yeah it's great I mean I wish every
problem were that easy to solve mm-hmm
Yeah right
no kidding yeah what else you got there
on my list bunch of notes of
anthropomorphic are awards I what's that
do you know about that so my buddy al
Kyle and I did it last year we had a so
the idea is we're we're hiking one day
in Topanga and we're talking about how
he's an environmental activist as well
as a big wave surfer Kyle chairman show
he's a podcast as well but he has a
project everybody's got a podcast he's a
really good guy he's like one of these
he's 28 he's like super earnest and he's
like kind of guy like you're having a
conversation and you mentioned a book
and a week later he's like hey I read
that book you mentioned it's really good
it's like all right all young people
should be like you you know yeah he's
really like too smart
yeah and serious about stuff anyway
we're talking about how hard it is to
get people to pay attention to
environmental issues because it's such a
downer you know and I was like man I
know all these comedians it would be
cool if we could find a way to get
comedy into the environmental thing and
we came up with this idea where we flip
everything upside down and we say we
have an awards ceremony to honor the
companies that are doing the most to
fuck mother earth and the awards are
accepted on behalf of the companies by
comedians
so we did it last year and it was
fucking wild it was so great so the
presenters were people like Matt Taibbi
from Rolling Stone and the guy who was a
founder of Greenpeace and you know
different environmental people and sort
of political people and accepting on
behalf of these people like Leo flowers
and if you know em Jake johansson Moshe
kasher and Natasha Leggero did this
incredible bit where they they were
incestuous brother-sister couple yeah
yeah I think they represented the Chase
Bank
yeah and Brendon Walsh she was fantastic
it looks like Dennis Miller there hey it
does yeah so it was great I know we wore
tuxedos and we did this whole way to do
that at a theater in the miracle theater
would ya yeah it was great and it was
it's funded by various people but the
Nell Newman Foundation Paul Newman's
daughter how cool she's a big supporter
when you doing it again December 3rd oh
cool yeah it's great
same place same place if you're free
come accept in a warm let me find out
yeah I think I'm out of town yeah that's
the thing we're with lighting like Bryan
Callen yeah he wants to do it but it's a
lot so we're gonna get it tonight oh
good dinner with him a week ago we did
two shows last night and you were doing
two shows tonight he's I like that guy I
love them to death is my favorite people
yeah and he's also a real down-to-earth
he's a real dude Reese people often ask
me like I guess I'm like a conduit to
people like you and Bryan and it's like
what do they like in real life it there
they're like they seemed to be yeah I
don't think you do as many podcast as he
does mm-hmm or as many as I do and be
somebody else right I don't think it's
too much work holding up the facade I
don't think it would work yeah I don't
think you could hold up a facade that
that long yeah I don't I mean again
everybody varies you vary who you are
dependent upon the day and the stresses
and the influences in life but I don't
know anybody who's full of shit
I don't know anybody who's doing a
podcast who's got like a totally
different persona right I bet a lot of
those self-help fellows probably they're
rocking that yeah that's a that's a
full-of-shit industry yeah you know
let's look it's one of those it's like
there's people that are real self-help
people that are doing real work and
they're really they really are committed
to it and they love it and they really
love helping people and then there's
other people that find that as like a
niche it's a way to get in so a little
greased path you know it helps you like
slip on in yeah yeah yeah and it's
sometimes it's hard to tell who's who in
that work yeah you know that's a weird
world it's one of the weirdest worlds
the world of constant motivation we are
constantly motivating people and yeah
and trying to find some new way to say
things you've already said a thousand
times and what's it all boiled down to
you know it all boils down to the same
simple shit again and again experience
over possessions forgive yourself and
others love yourself and others but
sometimes they can say something that
resonates sometimes some people can say
something that resonates but those
people have to they have to be there's
to be something unique about them like
their life experiences they have to have
accomplished something they have to
there's they have to be there has to be
some actual meet find their words and
there's a lot of people that are doing
it that are just doing it because
they're not really doing anything else
yeah they just do that that's very
strange it's very strange because
they've tapped into this need and this
feeling that people have where they need
to be motivated and they need you know
they need someone to say positive
spiritual things that resonate with them
so these people sort of found that as a
way to become popular or famous or
instafamous or whatever you know yeah
it's like buying a membership to a gym
and they're never going you know or what
I do sometimes like I'd love to buy
camping gear there yeah I don't really
camp very much though yeah but I love
camping gear they had like high-quality
tents and other packs and go to Ariana
and play yeah I need steaks
I need those little fucking aluminum
scientific tents into the dark like yeah
the the spiral was really good in sand
as well I got them I got a special
hammer to put them in and then it's got
holes that you like hook and pull them
out yeah yeah I've used it maybe twice
in five years lucky yeah I bought one of
them fucking what are those things
called those little stoves the little
propane stoves you know thing yeah it's
on top never used it you know sitting in
my I was like I'm gonna use this on our
next trip but when you know when
civilization collapses you got that in
the garage collapses you really want
flint and steel and you want some tinder
I mean all you can't count on any of
that shit because you don't know how to
make a lighter so you can't count on
lighters you got to be able to make a
fire without a lighter also when
civilization ends you're not gonna want
to live yeah yeah that's the thing it's
just too hot there's no way to really
prepare for it now it's too hard yeah
you know to live I mean I guess if
that's all you've ever known if all
you've ever known was living in an
incredibly primitive way and hunting and
gathering you'd be fine with it
well hunting and gathering is easy for
hunter-gatherers if you live in a
fertile place even if you don't in the
Kalahari Desert the Kong sand people
work roughly 20 hours a week and with
we're calling work is hunting and
gathering
what are they hunting I guess there are
some sorts of antelope rabbits rats
desert rat I don't know I haven't spent
much time in the Kalahari Desert you can
a rat uh-oh
there's a fucking crazy article about
these monkeys that are eating rats good
macaque macaque the hiset macaque
monkeys there look at esque cock killer
rat eating monkey stunned scientists in
Malaysia I saw that yesterday and I was
gonna tweet it I was like all right I've
tweeted too many fucking crazy things
today whenever I read something really
bonkers and I tweet it but that one
I'm like imma saving this one for
tomorrow but look at the size of that
goddamn rat and these monkeys are
ferocious predators and they thought of
these monkeys as being primarily fruit
eaters but no they they really favor
eating rats and it's holding this
goddamn rat down and eating it headfirst
the hell of an image fuckin a right ya
fuckin aim at look at his like the
distant look in his eyes
yeah this is eating a rat head yeah you
ever been in a place with wild monkeys
yes yeah yeah Costa Rica
it was weird we were worried too they
come right yeah yeah okay we were
staying at this resort and we we one of
my kids wanted to feed the monkey and
Oreo and my wife was like oh it probably
shouldn't it's not good for them and
then I said this give him one fucking
Oreo who cares
I bet he's already had an Oreo before I
forget what the conversation was anyway
the monkey takes the Oreo opens it and
eats the white frosting I was like that
little motherfucker you exactly what to
do who turned it just like everybody
does start scraping off the frosting and
looking right at ya yeah it was there
was different kinds of monkeys - there
was howler monkeys and there was other
month there was big monkeys and little
monkeys that's a crazy place Costa
Rica's wild man maraca dials and shit
that was another interesting place I
visited the crocodiles are a trip man
because we were in a boat and we went on
this like sort of tour of this river
system and you go on a tour the river
system I'm watching this fucking 15-foot
crocodile slide into the water from the
bank I'm like fuck and you see the
crocodile slides all over the banks cuz
these these rivers just filled with
crocodiles and so anytime my kid would
come anywhere close to the railing of
the boat of like hey hey hey let's stay
over here
let's stay in the middle the fuck away
from the monsters I I met this dude long
time ago I don't remember where he was
but we were sitting around a fire
talking about like bizarre experiences
we'd had travelling whatever
he was from I think New Hampshire and he
had a thing like you and and Marshall go
running every morning he had a thing
where he and his dog would go down to
the lake and take a swim every everyday
at dusk African when he got home from
work you take the dog for swim as a
black lab I think and and he went to
visit his brother in Florida mmm he
drove down there and his brother was out
and when he arrived and it was around
dusk and he's like let's go first one
there's a lake and he jumps in the water
with his dog and they're swimming across
the lake and he hear it it's quiet right
and here's this bro
and he's like what was that it's a weird
sound and then he realizes I'm in
fucking Florida I'm not in New Hampshire
there are alligators here what the fuck
am i doing so he turns around and starts
swimming back and he's swimming off
trying not to panic
and the fucking dog goes are dogs gone
alligator croco and took his dog never
saw the dog again
it could have been him - yeah one of my
favorite alligator stories from
Florida's there was a high speed chase
got a stolen car and it gets to a bridge
the cops chasing them guy jumps out of
the car jumps off the bridge gets eaten
immediately alligator literally landed
in front of the alligator that often but
they definitely will yeah that's not
what they do
well the crocodiles ox it a legate errs
are less aggressive than crocodiles and
there are crocodiles in Florida but
they're much less frequent what's the
difference
American alligator is a smaller animal
they have a longer pointy or snout and
they have more exposed teeth an
alligator has a blunt more rounded face
and they they get much larger than
American crocodiles American crocodiles
are pretty small american alligators get
pretty fucking big so in africa do they
have crocs and elegant no Africa is just
crocodile just crying yeah much much
mother Hugh
of crocodiles yeah they have Nile
crocodile right you see them take those
water buffalo and stuff terrifying
saltwater crocodiles I thought I'd seen
video what you said so I googled it four
different times at least in the last
couple years this has happened one guy
lost his arm two people died the Florida
thing getting chased by the cops and
ended up getting the finality lower
demands Florida is so wacky that is the
place where all the refuges and the
outcasts they all go to Florida man yeah
yeah more than once I'm sure it makes
sense we jump in the water man you've
risking it like they don't just because
alligators don't eat people as often as
crocodiles do in Africa it doesn't mean
that they wouldn't they don't have a
rule all right like oh that's a person
should need them they don't give a fuck
if you're a dog or a person or a kid
yeah there was a an alligator ate a baby
at Disneyworld Oh remember that yeah
yeah three years ago yeah yeah fucking
two year old baby playing by the water
the alligator slides up on the bank
snatch pulls it right under um fuck that
day yeah but I lived in Florida when I
was a kid huh we lived in Gainesville
and there was alligators everywhere and
I remember one of them snatched some
lady's dog and I was like Jesus Christ I
didn't know they kill people's dogs yes
he would see them floating around and
they seemed so innocuous because they
did they were almost always still yeah
they very rarely moved there were signs
they didn't want you to feed him
marshmallows people would throw
marshmallows and the alligators would
eat marshmallows and they just don't
want you don't think I still owe the
marshmallows I guess and they would just
chew him up and swallow him some people
would throw marshmallows at the
alligators just to see it that was back
when alligators were endangered this was
in the late 70s and they're not
endangered anymore in fact they you
could kill as many of like you can get
it commercial hunting tag for 500
alligators I watched that on that Swamp
People show it is a show about alligator
killers and
just killing alligators because you know
that mark the last Indians to be
pacified I hate that phrase then in the
United States the last tribe to finally
give up was the seminal in the
Everglades yeah
after the patchi's and the Sioux and all
that yeah cuz man they have weird life
yeah
far live in the Everglades so the
Everglades are another thing that human
beings ruined because of white trash
people in Florida because releasing
pythons there's literally nothing left
alive in the Everglades all the deer are
missing all the raccoons are missing all
the all the marsh hairs gone
everything's missing like the scientists
and biologists have done these surveys
of wildlife and the difference between
like 1980 and 2019 is so unbelievably
stark yeah it's so crazy and it's all
those fucking dorks that want to keep
pets and then they release them they
release them out there in the wild yeah
yeah Python so it's not just the
Everglades right it's I'd read recently
like 30 percent of all the birds in
North America are gone well they say in
the last that's how skiers live that's
how scary yeah have you ever seen the
numbers how many house cats how many
birds house cats kill billions billions
in just in United States but they're
cute adorable fucking the billions
though killers billions of birds like
you see like scientists were baffled
when they did the actual survey they
found there were the real numbers
they're like this can't be real this
can't be right
billions you have a cat right yeah -
Kelly you had a whole bit in your staff
oh yeah yeah yeah I like cats
I love cats yeah they're they're
interesting creatures I had three of
them in Spain that's funny they had
their own little world you know yeah
three of them did what they wanted to do
the only bummer is litter boxes yeah had
them outside
gotta have them outside the house in my
neighborhood you cannot yeah coyotes
yeah and okay holes are cilona owls and
coyotes yeah those owls are a
motherfucker they'll snatch them up just
as quick as anything
we have big owls out here so if you were
gonna die from an animal attack what
animal would you like to die from you'd
like a big cat because they would kill
you before they'd eat you yeah you know
yeah a bear would just eat you yeah
black bear Lee grizzly bears sometimes
eat well they'll fuck you up and anyway
this is what I was told when I was in
Alaska that you play dead with a grizzly
but never with a black Wow hmm because
some Grizzlies that if they think you're
dead they'll kick some dust on you and
come back a week later when you're
surrounded they're like French people
they want they want a test and you know
that's not totally true it depends on
how hungry they are and whether or not
they're old but you are more likely to
be attacked by a black bear for
predation right a friend of mine was
attacked recently really yeah he had a
he had a shoot a black bear yeah yeah he
was he tried to chase it off and he
stumbled upon there was a smell he's a
rancher he stumbled upon this smell and
the smell was a dead cow and this black
bear had been eating this dead cow and
he tried to chase the black bear off and
the black bear decided to try to go
after him and had to wind up shooting it
he had a rifle or pistol I think it's a
pistol but it was it wouldn't stop it
wouldn't leave him alone just trying to
say get the fuck out of here yeah gotta
throw it waving his arms you know wolfed
at him then it turned around and came
out on from another direction and then
it literally ran up within like 20 feet
of him there okay we're done here that
happened to me with a monkey once really
yeah there eat the monkey I didn't know
did you feed him a rat I this was in
Malaysia I was in a Botanical Gardens in
Penang Malaysia I actually told this
book the story at the beginning of sex
at dawn I was with my girlfriend at the
time and like your situation in Costa
Rica she wanted to give some peanuts to
these monkeys these guys at the entrance
were selling little bags of peanuts and
so she there was this baby monkey
hanging by his tail over the trail where
we were and she pulled out this bag of
peanuts and like
you know opened it and that attracted
all this attention from other monkeys
and while she was handing a peanut to
the baby this other monkey jumped out
from the bushes lepton her took the bag
of peanuts and was gone like in a flash
it was so happened so fast
she's screaming I'm like what the fuck
it was just like holy shit and we're
surrounded by these monkeys they're
everywhere mm-hmm and that's when we
realized like all the local people have
these big sticks and we thought they
were walking sticks or something they'd
like to keep the monkeys away I didn't
have a stick so I got like I was too
triggered yeah I got like fuck you
monkeys you know you leave my girl alone
he said that like Joe Dirt not into it
and yeah I felt like you know all this
testosterone adrenaline and I was like
and Hulk smash yeah so we you know 20
minutes later or in this sort of field
and there's a tree in the middle of the
field and there more baby monkeys and by
now she's totally forgotten about it
she's like oh they're cute so I have the
peanuts now and she wants to give more
peanuts so I pull out a bag to give to
her and this monkey comes out of the
woods sort of a big one and he's like
looking at me and I'm just like fuck you
dude like I'm three times your size
fuck you and he sort of like moves you
know sort of does this thing and he's
looking at me and there was a branch I
picked up the branch and threw it at him
right kind of like what your buddy is
trying to do with this bear like hey get
the fuck out of here you know and this
monkey just looked at the branch land in
front of him and looked up at me and it
was like you fucked up and he lept over
it and came charging at me with it like
these fangs yeah
just coming straight at me I went nuts I
turned into a monkey I just started
going
and I was like jumping up and down and
spraying spit everywhere and he stopped
and when I got and he's and my
girlfriend screaming and we're like ten
feet away and then he just like backed
up but like yeah fuck you
whoa primal moment whoa very primal and
he didn't plan that now
if I had had a stick it would have been
necessary so the moral of story is Cara
was carry a stick when your own walk
softly yeah carry a big stick
dude I wrap this up yeah take a nap
civilize to death the price of progress
Christopher Ryan then gently speaking
and what's the other walking about it
forever the first book sex at dawn no no
the what do you call your you do podcast
from the van still just oh yeah gently
it's still tangentially speaking it's
just hashtag of anthropology social
media always gets you but thank you
brother thank you thanks for being here
yeah bye everybody
[Music]